# Simple-Problem-Solving-Agent

Given a percept returns an action, keeping track of the actions sequence, making use of the current state, a goal and a problem.

The current state is updated from the percept and the current state, then if the sequence of actions is still empty, the goal is formulated from the current state and used to formulate the problem along with the current state. The sequence of actions is then computed by searching the problem: if the problem is not solvable, a null action is returned, otherwise the first action in the sequence is returned, and the sequence is updated to remove the first action.

# Tree-Search

Given a problem returns a solution or a failure.

The frontier is initialized using the initial state of the problem. If the frontier is empty, the problem is not solvable, otherwise the first node in the frontier is removed and if it is a goal node, the solution is returned, otherwise the node is expanded and the resulting nodes are added to the frontier. The process is repeated until a solution is found or the frontier is empty.

# Graph-Search

Given a problem returns a solution or a failure.

The frontier is initialized using the initial state of the problem. The explored set is initialized to be empty. If the frontier is empty, the problem is not solvable, otherwise the first node in the frontier is removed and if it is a goal node, the solution is returned, otherwise the node is expanded and the resulting nodes are added to the frontier if they are not already in the frontier or the explored set. The process is repeated until a solution is found or the frontier is empty.

# Breadth-First-Search, Graph version

Given a problem returns a solution or a failure.

The first node is the initial state of the problem (if it is already a goal node, the solution is returned). The frontier is initialized as a FIFO queue containing the first node and the explored set is initialized to be empty. If the frontier is empty, the problem is not solvable, otherwise the first node in the frontier is removed and added to the explored set. For each possible action in the current state, the child node is computed: if it is not already in the frontier or the explored set, it is added to the frontier; also, if it is a goal node, the solution is returned. The process is repeated until a solution is found or the frontier is empty.

# Uniform-Cost-Search, Graph version

Given a problem returns a solution or a failure.

The first node is the initial state of the problem, the frontier is initialized as a priority queue containing the first node and the explored set is initialized to be empty. If the frontier is empty, the problem is not solvable, otherwise the first node in the frontier is removed and added to the explored set and if it is a goal node, the solution is returned. For each possible action in the current state, the child node is computed: if it is not already in the frontier or the explored set, it is added to the frontier; else if it is already in the frontier with a higher path cost, it is replaced by the current node in the frontier. The process is repeated until a solution is found or the frontier is empty.

# Depth-First-Search, Graph version

Given a problem returns a solution or a failure.

The first node is the initial state of the problem (if it is already a goal node, the solution is returned). The frontier is initialized as a LIFO queue containing the first node and the explored set is initialized to be empty. If the frontier is empty, the problem is not solvable, otherwise the first node in the frontier is removed and added to the explored set. For each possible action in the current state, the child node is computed: if it is not already in the frontier or the explored set, it is added to the frontier; also, if it is a goal node, the solution is returned. The process is repeated until a solution is found or the frontier is empty.

# Depth-Limited-Search

Given a problem and a limit returns a solution or a failure,the function is called passing also the initial node.

If the node is a goal node, the solution is returned, else if the limit reached zero, the cutoff failure is returned, otherwise for each possible action in the current state, the child node is computed and the function is called recursively passing the child node and the limit decremented by one. If the result is a cutoff, the value is stored in a boolean variable, otherwise the result is returned. At the end, if the boolean variable is true, the cutoff failure is returned, otherwise the failure is returned.

# Iterative-Deepening-Search

Given a problem returns a solution or a failure.

The Depth-Limited-Search function is called passing the problem and the depth limit and if the result is not a cutoff, the solution is returned. The process is repeated incrementing the depth limit from zero until possibly infinity, until a solution is found.

# Bidirectional-Search

Two simultaneous searches are performed, one from the initial state and one from the goal state, until the two searches meet.