# Minimax-Decision

Given a state returns an action, the one that maximizes the minimum value of the resulting states. 

Speaking of Min-Value function, given a state, a utility value is returned: if the state is terminal, the utility value is returned, otherwise for each possible action in the current state, the utility value is updated with the minimum between itself (initially infinity) and the maximum value of the resulting states, and then returned.

Speaking of Max-Value function, given a state, a utility value is returned: if the state is terminal, the utility value is returned, otherwise for each possible action in the current state, the utility value is updated with the maximum between itself (initially negative infinity) and the minimum value of the resulting states, and then returned.

# Alpha-Beta-Search

Given a state returns an action, the one that as the maximum value obtained for Max-Value function.

Speaking of Max-Value function, given a state, a utility value is returned: if the state is terminal, the utility value is returned, otherwise for each possible action in the current state, the utility value is updated with the maximum between itself (initially negative infinity) and the minimum value of the resulting states, and then returned. If the utility value is greater than beta, the function returns the utility value, otherwise alpha is updated with the maximum between itself and the utility value, and then returned.

Speaking of Min-Value function, given a state, a utility value is returned: if the state is terminal, the utility value is returned, otherwise for each possible action in the current state, the utility value is updated with the minimum between itself (initially infinity) and the maximum value of the resulting states, and then returned. If the utility value is less than alpha, the function returns the utility value, otherwise beta is updated with the minimum between itself and the utility value, and then returned.

