# AC-3

Given a CSP, returns false if an inconsistency is found, otherwise returns true, using a queue of arcs to be checked (all).

Until the queue is not empty, the first arc is removed from the queue and after it has been revised with a positive result, if the domain of the first variable is empty, the function returns false, otherwise for each neighbor of the first node, except the second node, the arc is added to the queue. If no inconsistency is found, the function returns true.

# Backtracking-Search

Given a CSP, returns a solution, if it exists, otherwise returns failure.

The function is called with a CSP and an empty assignment. If the assignment is complete, it is returned. Otherwise, a variable is selected from the CSP, and for each value in the ordered domain values of the variable, if the value is consistent with the assignment, the value is assigned to the variable and add to the assignment, then the inference step is applied and there is a solution not failure, the inferences are added to the assignment and the function is called recursively with the CSP and the assignment. If the function returns a solution, it is returned, otherwise the value and the inferences are removed from the assignment and the next value is tried. If no value is consistent with the assignment, failure is returned.

# Min-Conflicts

Given a CSP and a maximum number of steps, returns a solution, if it exists, otherwise returns failure.

Starting from an initial complete assignment, if it is a solution for the CSP, it is returned, otherwise a variable is selected randomly from the CSP and a value is chosen as the one that minimizes the number of conflicts with the current assignment. The new value is assigned to the variable and the process is repeated until the maximum number of steps is reached or a solution is found.

# Tree-CSP-Solver

Given a CSP, returns a solution, if it exists, otherwise returns failure.

Starting from an empty assignment and a topological ordering of the variables, each node except the root is made arc-consistent with its parent. If it is not possible, failure is returned. Otherwise, an assignment is made for each node, starting from the root, and if there is no consistent assignment, failure is returned. Otherwise, the assignment is returned.

