# PL-Resolution

Given a knowledge base and a query, returns true if the query is entailed by the knowledge base, otherwise returns false.

For each pair of clauses in the set of the ones in the CNF representation of the KB and the negation of the query, the function is called recursively with the current pair of clauses: if an empty clause is found, the function returns true, otherwise the new clauses are stored and added to the one already calculated. At the end, if they are a subset of the all clauses and the new clauses are added.

# DPLL-Satisfiable

Given a sentence in propositional logic, returns true if the sentence is satisfiable, otherwise returns false.

After extracting all the clauses and the symbols, and starting with an empty model, if every clause is true in the model, the function returns true, otherwise if there is a clause that is false in the model, the function returns false. Otherwise, a pure symbol is chosen and the function is called recursively with the model extended with the pure symbol set to that value, returning its value. The same is done with a unit clause. If no pure symbol or unit clause is found, the first symbol is chosen and the function is called recursively assigning the symbol first to true and then to false, returning the logical OR of the two values.

# WalkSAT

Given a set of clauses, a maximum number of flips and a probability, returns a model that satisfies the clauses or failure if no model is found.

The function starts with a random assignment of true and false to the symbols. If the model satisfies the clauses, the function returns the model, otherwise a false clause is chosen at random and with probability p a symbol is chosen at random and flipped, otherwise the symbol that maximizes the number of satisfied clauses is chosen and flipped. The function is called until the maximum number of flips is reached or a model is found, returning the model or failure.

# KB-Agent

Given a percept, returns an action, making use of a knowledge base and a time counter, initialized to 0.

Every time the agent receives a percept, it tells the knowledge base, then it asks for the best action to do, and tell it has in fact taken that action. Each time the time counter is incremented.

