# Unify

Given x and y and the substitution so far $\theta$, return a substitution to make x and y identical.

If $\theta$ is not possible, return failure, otherwise if x and y are identical, return $\theta$, otherwise if x is a variable, call Unify-Var, otherwise if y is a variable, call Unify-Var, otherwise if x and y are both compound, call recursively Unify on the arguments of x and y, otherwise if x and y are both lists, call recursively Unify passing the head of x and y as $\theta$ and the rest as x and y, otherwise return failure.

Speking about Unify-Var, if the first variable is already in the substitution with that value, return Unify, otherwise if the second variable is already in the substitution with that value, return Unify, otherwise if both variables does not occur in the other, return failure, otherwise add the variable to the substitution and return the substitution.

# FOL-FC-Ask

Given a knowledge base KB, a query $\alpha$, return a substitution or false.

For each rule in KB, first standardize the variables and then for each sobstitution that makes two sides of the rule identical, update the implication with the substitution; if it does not unify with something in the KB or in the new sentences, add it to the new sentences, and call unify on it and on the query: if the result is not failure, return the result. Then add the new sentences to the KB and repeat the process until no new sentences are added, then return false.

# FOL-BC-Ask

Given a knowledge base KB, a list of conjuncts forming a query and an empty list of substitutions, return a set of substitutions.

If the list of conjuncts is empty, return the empty set of substitutions, otherwise substitute the list of conjuncts and then for each sentence in the KB where after standardizing the variables and unify the implication with the one calculated before succeeds, preppend the new conjuncts to the list of conjuncts and call FOL-BC-Ask on the new list of conjuncts, adding the result to the set of substitutions. Then return the set of substitutions.

