# Cortex

- Temporal lobe, on the sides of the brain, is responsible for hearing and language.
- Parietal lobe, on the top-back of the brain, is responsible for attention, touch and saccade planning.
- Frontal lobe, on the front of the brain, is responsible for planning, execution, higher level cognition, high level language processing and language production.
- Occipital lobe, on the back of the brain, is responsible for vision.

# Other structures

- Cerebellum, at the back of the brain, is responsible for fine motor control.
- Thalamus, in the middle of the brain, is the major sensory gateway to the cortex.
- Hippocampus, in the middle of the brain, is responsible for memory.
- Corpus Callosum, in the middle of the brain, is responsible for communication between the two hemispheres, composed of white matter.

# Matter

## Grey matter

It is defined gray becuase of its color, caused by the high density of cell bodies with few myelinated axons. The areas where grey matter is found are sensory processing and cognition related, but can be found in other areas of the brain (cerebellum, basal ganglia, thalamus, etc).

## White matter

It consists mainly of long range axons that connect different areas of the brain, responsible for efficient communication. Its structure can change with learning because new better connections can be formed.

# Neurons

The human brain can be studied at different levels of scale, from systems and pathways to circuits and neurons up to synapses and membranes.

Connections between neurons are called synapses and occur on neuron dendrites, which receives chimical synaptial signals from other neurons. A neuron will 'fire' when the sum of all the signals it receives is above a certain threshold. The neuron will then send a signal down its axon to other neurons.

When an action potential reaches the presynaptic terminal, it open calcium channels, responsible for releasing neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft. The neurotransmitters will then bind to receptors on the postsynaptic membrane, generating a postsynaptic potential, that can either be excitatory or inhibitory.

## Plasticity

Synapses can be strengthened or weakened, depending on the activity of the neurons, as well as the connections between neurons can be changed, like weak or ineffective that can be pruned. This is called plasticity, to adapt to the environment.

A hub neuron is more likely to survive, but if too many neurons are connected to it, its survival rate decreases. This is called competition. 

During growth, brain volume triples, caused by an increase in the number of conneciion, dendritic branching and myelination.

# Brain tools for studying the brain

There are several non-invasive tools available for studying brain activity and structure, including electroencephalography (EEG), structural imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). These tools provide insights into different aspects of brain function and structure: electrical activity of neurons, the structural connectivity of brain regions, and the metabolic activity associated with specific tasks or behaviors.

* Electroencephalography (EEG):
    * A non-invasive method used to study patterns of brain activity with high temporal resolution.
    * EEG measures electrical potentials generated by the synchronized firing of thousands of neurons.
    * It is difficult to pinpoint the brain regions causing the fluctuations, but the timing of the signals is very precise.
    * EEG can be used to investigate the dynamics of neural activity in the brain.

* Structural imaging:
    * Involves collecting 3D images of the brain to provide information about various aspects of brain structure.
    * This type of imaging can provide information about:
        * Gray matter volume (i.e., the overall size of the gray matter in the brain).
        * The density of gray matter in specific regions, which can approximate the concentration of neurons.
        * Cortical thickness at a resolution of a few millimeters.
        * Surface area of particular brain regions.

* Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI):
    * Allows observing which parts of the brain work when we do things like thinking or perceiving.
    * fMRI measures metabolic activity, which is often used as a proxy for neural activity; active neurons require more energy to function and can increase their metabolic rate.
    * fMRI uses a big magnet to affect protons in the brain and then measures how they behave as they return to their original state.
    * By analyzing the patterns of proton behavior, we can identify which brain areas are more active during certain tasks.
    * This method gives us very detailed information about where activity is happening in the brain and can help us understand how different regions contribute to complex processes like thinking and perception.

* Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI):
    * Used to examine the structure of white matter fibers.
    * For each voxel, the preferred direction of diffusion and the strength of diffusion are estimated to determine white matter tracts.
    * These connections are considered ‘hardwired’ connections.
